---
template: overrides/blogs.html
tags:
  - docker
---

# Notes on Docker Pitfalls

!!! info
    Author: Void, published on December 9, 2021, reading time: about 6 minutes, WeChat official account article link: [:fontawesome-solid-link:]()

## 1. Introduction

We often use Docker to run some services, but we only use a small part of its functionalities. Docker itself has many functions and commands. As a non-professional developer, I would like to record the pitfalls I have encountered in Docker in this article.

## 2. Pitfalls

### 2.1 Starting Containers

Docker containers run in the background and must have a persistent foreground process. Otherwise, the container will automatically exit.

A common practice is to use CMD or ENTRYPOINT in the Dockerfile to declare the command we want to run, or to declare the command after Docker run. However, sometimes our command may not be easy to write here.

In this case, we can start the container as a daemon process.

```shell
docker run -itd image id
```

With the following command, we can enter the container.

```shell
docker exec -it container id /bin/bash
```

In the container, we can freely execute our commands.

Finally, we use Ctrl+P+Q to exit the container without closing it.


### 2.2 Text Editor

The native Linux environment may not have a text editor. We can use cat > file to paste the content into the text, but this method is not very user-friendly.

Vim is a commonly used text editor under Linux. We can install Vim with the following command.

```shell
apt-get update
apt-get install vim
```

### 2.3 Checking Container Status

Check the processes running in the container.

```shell
docker top container id
```

For unwanted processes, we can use the following command to kill them.

```shell
kill -9 PID
```

View the log of processes running in the container.

```shell
docker logs -f -t --tail 20 container id
```

### 2.4 Cleaning Up Unused Volumes

We often use Docker to create and delete containers. Over time, the data volumes mounted by the container can produce some zombie files (unbound containers, etc.).

We can use the following command to find zombie files.

```shell
docker volume ls -qf dangling=true
```

And delete these zombie files.

```shell
docker volume rm $(docker volume ls -qf dangling=true)
```

## 3. Conclusion

These are just the pitfalls and knowledge the author has learned while using Docker, and are not comprehensive. There is still much room for exploration in Docker.

I hope the readers can avoid some pitfalls and bugs.